From: mib@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Michael I. Bushnell, p/BSG)
Newsgroups: gnu.misc.discuss
Subject: Hurd 0.0 release status
Followup-To: gnu.misc.discuss
Date: 13 Jul 1996 23:53:41 GMT
Organization: Touring Consulting Services
Lines: 35
Message-ID: <MIB.96Jul13195341@gnu.ai.mit.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: churchy.gnu.ai.mit.edu


People are eager to know how close we are to release, so here's an
update:

There is one rather annoying bug I'd like to find which is causing
random crashes.  I expect this will not be too hard to locate.  There
are some more trivial bugs, but the release will not be held up for
them. 

Forty-three packages of GNU software have been built native.
Remaining to be built are three packages for which new releases are
expected soon.

Also remaining to be built native are bash, gdb, mach, the Hurd
itself, and the internet utilities and daemons.  We intend to sync our
separate copy of libc source with the libc maintainer, and then build
it native too.

Because of obnoxious export restrictions, we have still to make
separate shared libraries for the crypt functions.

Except for the actual final packaging, all the release engineering
tasks to be done have been completed.


To summarize, we still need to:

o Fix one obnoxious bug
o Compile three packages that are waiting for release;
o Compile gdb, bash, mach, and hurd native
o Sync libc source and compile native
o Deal with crypt shared libraries
o Final packaging

Michael

From: mib@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Michael I. Bushnell, p/BSG)
Newsgroups: gnu.misc.discuss
Subject: Re: Hurd--ne plus ultra of vaporware?
Date: 17 Jul 1996 03:02:14 GMT

In article <4sg6tp$n4t@linux.cs.Helsinki.FI> torvalds@linux.cs.Helsinki.FI (Linus Torvalds) writes:

   Hey! We could also ask some well-known rock-group for one of their
   lyrics, and use that as the theme song for the Hurd release.  And then
   we could ask shops to stay open longer to sell the Hurd! Whaddaya think?
   Don't say it has been delayed, just shout so loudly about all the new
   features that nobody cares about the delay?

Perhaps we could get Morrisey to sing the song.  He's very good
looking.  Much better looking than that Mick Jagger fellow.

Or something delicate, like Bach's French Suite in G.  That would be
fun.  

In any case, here's the state of the release:

o Everything but nine packages has been compiled native.
o The random crash bug I alluded to is fixed.
o We have to build a floppy image for part of the installation instructions.

That's it.  I bet you nobody in Redmond has ever made a statement like
that...

Michael

